[MUSIC]
In this video, we're going to
look at how we can replace or
remove unwanted characters,
using Excel's SUBSTITUTE function.
In the last video, we saw how we could
use CLEAN and TRIM to get rid of certain
non-printing characters and
extra spaces, but this is quite limited.
If you have a look at
our Paid Amount column,
we've ended up with an S
instead of a dollar,
and we actually need to either get rid
of that or replace it with a dollar.
TRIM and CLEAN can't help us with this,
but the SUBSTITUTE function can.
What SUBSTITUTE does is,
given a string, it will look for
a string within that string, and
replace it with anything else you choose.
So what we're going to do now,
is get rid of that S using SUBSTITUTE.
We're going to click into Q2,
which is going to be our new amount field.
And we're going to type "=SUB" and
TAB, for SUBSTITUTE.
The first argument is the main text string
where you wish to make the substitution,
and that's going to be our amount.
Then we type a comma.
The old text is the text we want to
replace, so that's going to be our S.
And we want to replace that with
absolutely nothing, and this is curious.
We specify this by opening our quotes and
immediately closing them.
When we then close our brackets and
press Enter, that S has been replaced.
Perfect, or not quite, we still have this,
what looks like a space,
just before the number.
Well, if it was a space,
we would be able to do this,
substitute S space with nothing.
But when I press Enter, our S is back, and
that tells me that this can't be a space.
I would probably also try
a CLEAN function on this, but
I happen to know that's
not going to work either.
So I'm just going to remove that space,
so at least we've got rid of our S.
So now, we need to work out how
we get rid of this character,
where we're not sure what it is.
Well again,
we're going to do a SUBSTITUTE.
And what we're going to do is,
tell Excel to substitute whatever
that happens to be with nothing.
But because we're doing
another substitution,
we're going to need a second
SUBSTITUTE function.
So coming back to Q2,
we're going to double click, and
just between our equals and
our SUBSTITUTE,
we're going to type SU and tab,
to add another SUBSTITUTE.
The string that we're going to make
the substitution in this time is our newly
substituted string.
So we're just going to type
a comma after our red bracket.
But now, we have to tell it
what the old text is, and
we're not actually sure what it is.
We know it's not a space, but
what we do know is it's
the second character in F2.
And to get that second character in F2,
we're going to use our MID function again.
So let's type MID and tab.
The text were trying to extract
something from, is our paid amount.
And we're going to start at the second
position, and get one character,
close our brackets for our MID,
and type another comma.
Once we find that character, we're going
to replace it with absolutely nothing.
Close your bracket for
your second SUBSTITUTE.
When we press enter,
we have now removed both characters
from the start, and
we can double click to copy down.
So the SUBSTITUTE function will allow
you to replace a part of your text.
If you need to make more
than one replacement,
you're going to need more
than one SUBSTITUTE function.
Two other great functions for cleaning,
we're not going to cover in this video,
but check them out in the toolbox,
they're UNICODE and UNICHAR.
We've covered a lot of great
text functions this week, but
practice makes permanent, so don't forget
to try out this week's practice challenge.